Michael Shepard 
Programming Languages
MIS 407
Sept 3, 2014

One programming language that I am familiar with is Java. Java is owned by Oracle Corporation and is used to create applications on a wide variety of platforms. From the typical PC computer to Android smart phones, individuals as well as large corporations use the language. Over the summer I used Java to add functionality and enhancements to a policy administration used by a Fortune 500 company. I am also beginning use the language to write Android applications in my free time. Java is an object-oriented, class-based language that can run on any JVM regardless of regardless of the computers architecture. Almost any computer can execute compiled Java code because Java runtime environments exist for most operating systems, which is what makes the language appealing to developers. Much of the syntax is derived from the C and C++ languages.  

C++ is another general purpose programming language that is also object-oriented. Unlike Java, C++ requires manual management rather than the automatic garbage collection that is done by Java. Another difference is that C++ is compiled directly into machine code, which is then executed by the CPU. With Java, the code it compiled into byte-code, which the JVM then interprets. Java also does not allow access to low-level details, which then prevents the programmer from enhancing the application when the compiler cannot. As mentioned before, Java is owned by Oracle, but C++ is not owned by any organization so can be used freely. When developers want their code to be closer to the hardware, it would be better to use C++ over Java and vice versa. Another consideration would be which operating system it would run on as well as how important memory management is. Another widely used language is C, of which C++ as well as Java, was influenced by. 

C does not include some of the higher level features from C++ and Java such as object orientation in C++ and Java, and the automatic garbage collection in Java. Another big difference is that C and C++ use pointers, which point directly to another value stored in the computer memory. Java used references, which enables the program to indirectly access a value stored in the memory. This means that the use of pointers requires the developer to have a much more detailed knowledge of the memory architecture. 

Python, a more high-level language, allows the programmer to write a program in less lines. Like Java, it includes automatic memory management and is object oriented, but Python is more intuitive then Java. Instead of typing “&&”, “||”, or “!”, the programmer would simply write “and”, “or”, or “not” which makes it a bit easier to understand. This shows how the language was created using more English words rather than punctuation. In the spirit of making programming fun, the language was named after the popular TV series, Monty Python. 
